mouse+human cells in 10x scRNA-seq
https://www.biostars.org/p/9539677/#9539837

Hi everyone,

I'm analyzing 10x scRNA-seq data generated from xenografts (mouse + human tissues). I have the following workflow to label cells as either mouse or human:

1. Align 10x scRNA-seq data to mouse+human combined genome using cellranger count.
2. Use the file generated by cellranger count (gem_classification.csv) which assigns mouse, human, or multiplet to each cell to classify each cell type.
3. Realign the fastq files to the mouse genome ( we are interested in the mouse cells) using cellranger count
4. Use the classification from Step 2 to filter out human cells in Seurat.
Would this be the right approach or is there a better alternative that you would recommend?

Thanks a lot!

This approach is fine, but is there a reason you aren't just using the output from step 2 and limiting to the mouse cells/genes within it?

ADD COMMENT • link25 days ago by jared.andrews07 ★ 13k
0
If there are stray reads in "mouse" cells which aligned to human for some reason, reliagning to mouse alone will force those reads to be assigned to a mouse gene.

ADD REPLY • link24 days ago by swbarnes2  12k
0
I guess I don't have a good grasp on how much of a difference it'd make, would be interesting to know if there are specific genes where this is a particular issue.

ADD REPLY • link24 days ago by jared.andrews07 ★ 13k
0
Thank you to both for your input. I also thought that alignment may improve if only a single ref genome is present, perhaps only for a small fraction of genes - though this is just an assumption. I may try both ways just to compare.

ADD REPLY • link24 days ago by Sy80 ▴ 10
0
If you notice much of a difference, be sure to give us the update!

ADD REPLY • link23 days ago by jared.andrews07 ★ 13k
0
Will do so!
